Opentelemetry OCI guide (#1017)
micronaut-projects/micronaut-guides: guides/micronaut-cloud-trace-base/create-app.adoc

common:completesolution.adoc[]

common:create-app-features.adoc[]

=== OpenTelemetry

The Micronaut framework uses https://opentelemetry.io/[OpenTelemetry] to generate and export tracing data.

> OpenTelemetry provides two annotations one to create a span and another to include additional information to the span.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenTelemetry provides two annotations: one to create a span and another to include additional information to the span.
```

> @WithSpan:: Used on methods to creates a new span using a given name or defaults to the method name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@WithSpan:: Used on methods to create a new span; defaults to the method name, but a unique name may be assigned instead
```

> @SpanAttribute:: Used on method parameter to include the value to the span with a given name or defaults to the parameter name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@SpanAttribute:: Used on method parameter to assign a value to a span; defaults to the parameter name, but a unique name may be assigned instead
```

> The `@WithSpan` and `@SpanAttribute` can be used on non-private methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@WithSpan` and `@SpanAttribute` can be used on non-private methods.
```
? Based on the next sentence, I'm wondering if this should say "can be used **only** on non-private methods."

> If the annotations are not enough, or you want to add tracing to a private method, Micronaut’s tracing integration registers a `io.opentelemetry.api.trace.Tracer` bean which exposes the OpenTelemetry API and can be dependency-injected as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If these two annotations are not enough, or if you want to add tracing to a private method, the Micronaut framework’s tracing integration registers a `io.opentelemetry.api.trace.Tracer` bean, which exposes the OpenTelemetry API and can be dependency-injected as needed.
```

[NOTE]
====

> The `io.micronaut.tracing.annotation` are available if you prefer or have an existing Micronaut Application already using them.

Reviewer: I do not understand what this sentence means. Is this what you're trying to say?

```suggestion
The `io.micronaut.tracing.annotation` is also available if you prefer to use it or if you're working on an existing Micronaut application that's already already using it.
```
OR

```suggestion
The `io.micronaut.tracing.annotation`s are also available if you prefer to use them or if you are working on an existing Micronaut application that's already using them.
```

> - `@NewSpan` : Identical to `@WithSpan`, it is used on methods to creates a new span using a given name or defaults to the method name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `@NewSpan` : Identical to `@WithSpan`; used on methods to create a new span; defaults to the method name, but a unique name may be assigned instead
```

> - `@ContinueSpan` : Used on methods to continue the existing span. Primarily used in conjunction with `@SpanTag`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `@ContinueSpan` : Used on methods to continue an existing span; primarily used in conjunction with `@SpanTag`
```

> - `@SpanTag` : Similar to `@SpanAttribute`, it is used on method parameter to include the value to the span with a given name or defaults to the parameter name. To use the `@SpanTag` on a method argument, the method must be annotated with either `@NewSpan` or `@ContinueSpan`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `@SpanTag` : Similar to `@SpanAttribute`, this is used on a method parameter to assign a value to a span; defaults to the parameter name, but a unique name may be assigned instead. To use `@SpanTag` on a method argument, the method must be annotated with either `@NewSpan` or `@ContinueSpan`.
```

====

=== Inventory Service

source:InventoryService[]
<1> Inject Tracing bean into class
<2> Creates a new span called "stock-counts"
<3> Adds a label, or tag, called "inventory.item" that will contain the value contained in `item`
<4> Same as `@SpanAttribute("inventory.store-name")`
<5> Same as `@WithSpan("warehouse-order")` with `@SpanAttributes` for item and count

=== Store Controller

> This class demonstrates using the `io.micronaut.tracing.annotation` instead of the OpenTelemetry annotations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class demonstrates use of the `io.micronaut.tracing.annotation` instead of the OpenTelemetry annotations.
```

[NOTE]
====

> If you have the following dependency declared, all HTTP Server methods (those annotated with `@Get`, `@Post` and etc.) will create spans automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have the following dependency declared, all HTTP Server methods (those annotated with `@Get`, `@Post`, etc.) will create spans automatically.
```

dependency:micronaut-tracing-opentelemetry-http[groupId=io.micronaut.tracing]
====

source:StoreController[]
<1> Equivalent to `@WithSpan("store.order")`
<2> Same as `@SpanAttribute("order.item")`and `@SpanAttribute`
<3> Span created automatically if `micronaut-tracing-opentelemetry-http` is declared
<4> Required for `@SpanTag`
<5> Tag is only added to the span if `micronaut-tracing-opentelemetry-http` is declared; otherwise ignored

=== Warehouse Client

You can also mix OpenTelemetry and Micronaut Tracing annotations in the same class.

[NOTE]
====

> If you have the following dependency declared, all HTTP Client methods (those annotated with `@Get`, `@Post` and etc.) will create spans automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have the following dependency declared, all HTTP Client methods (those annotated with `@Get`, `@Post`, etc.) will create spans automatically.
```
